Hi guys.
We've got a great use case to play with in this lab.
What we're going to do is create an AWS Lambda function and an event source mapping on an S3
bucket such that when users upload an image to that bucket it notifies Lambda S3 notifies Lambda
and then Lambda executes the function which resize is the images and saves them into a separate bucket.
At the same time a log event will be written by Lambda to CloudWatch logs.
Now what's happening here.
As you can see with the bucket, S3 is actually notifying Lambda.
It's not the other way round.
Lambda is not polling the bucket the bucket has an event notification which notifies Lambda and then
Lambda executes the code.
So this is what's known as a push notification and there's a lot of services.
As you can see in this list here which work in this way. The opposite is a pull based notification where
the event source is located on Lambda not here.
So the configuration in this example is for the event notification to come from the from S3.
Whereas in a pull based notification AWS Lambda is actually polling the service.
And so it doesn't do that with S3.
It does it with stream based services like Kinesis and DynamoDB and in our next lab we're actually
going to look into a bit more detail on how that works.
Now as I don't know what your background is in terms of coding what I'm doing in this lab is following
one of the AWS articles and I'm actually going to follow this sort of word for word.
I'm not going to make any changes to it at all.
And the reason is some of you will be coming from a non-coding background and with Lambda it can be
quite finicky if you don't get certain things right.
And it's quite easy for developers to fix some of the issues.
But if you're not a developer.
The more complex the functions the harder it can be for people to actually resolve those issues and
the solutions Architects Association exam is definitely not developer oriented.
You don't need to know the code.
So what I want to do is just follow through what's outlined in this tutorial.
So if you do get stuck.
If you have any problems you can refer to the link which will be available in the course downloads.
So let's get started.
The first thing we need to do is scroll down and we're going to copy all of this code and this will
also be available in the download so you don't have to use this web page.
And then I'm actually in that directory which we created in the previous lab.
So I mean Lambda rest free and I'm going to do nano and I'm going to paste my code in and then I'm going
to save my code as index.js. The next thing I need to do is run "npm install" and you should have
NPM installed.
You should have done that in the last lab as well.
So head back there if you missed the instructions and we're just gonna run this and get some warnings.
But I think that's okay.
And what we need to do next is create a zip file and this is going to be our deployment package.
So we run zip function.zip and then put a dot and if you look into the directory now we should
have our function.zip so we have our package ready.
And what we need to do before we run any commands here is go back over to the console and we're going
ahead S3 and create our buckets.
So I've already created mine ahead of time and what I've done is I've called it DCC-images dash
20 20 20 and then you need another bucket.
That's exactly the same name but we've resigned on the end and that's all you need to do.
And then what I've got is I've got this image and it's a happy face image and you'll find this.
This is also part of the instructions that we're following.
Also it's available in the course downloads.
And so this is what it actually looks like.
So it's a it's a happy person and it's a full sized image.
So let's head back to the command line and we have a command run so I've already formulated this command.
It's an AWOL CLIA mine that's going to create our function.
So it's AWOL slammed a create function.
We give the function a name and it's going to be called Create thumbnail.
We then tell it where our file is.
This is the function.zip file which is created and that we then sell at the type of handler to use
index or handler the runtime to use the time out the memory size and then the role.
So the key thing you need to get here is your ARN for your Lambda S3 role so you can go into IAM and
copy your ARN and paste it in and then we should be added just hit enter
so it looks like it's credit our function.
And if we head over to Lambda and let's just go up a level here to functions and sure enough we've got
our new function here create from now and so we can see that we've got logging configured here and Amazon
s free will have some get objects and put object permissions to the permissions are set up there and
then if we look in the actual function itself we can see the various modules and the code.
So what we want to do now is test the function and the way we do this is I'm going back to this web
page.
So we need to take this code and copy that to our clipboard and then we'll go over and we'll use nano.
We're going to paste the code in we're going to go up to where we can see source bucket.
There's two instances of source bucket.
So if we just backspace this out I'm going to grab my bucket name.
Copy that to my clipboard and then I can paste that in and then just go up here to the other instance
source bucket backspace died out and save it and paste it and then let's save this as inputs file with
the capital where dot takes a
and then we can run a command to actually invoke the function.
So we're going to run aws Lambda invoke function name and we give it the create thumbnail function
name the invocation type is event the payload file is the input file and then it's output file that
takes t and we just hit enter and we get a status code to 0 2.
Now let's head over to S3 and go in our resized bucket and if we refresh that here it is.
So we've now got this file I'm going to download this one and drag it onto the screen and say Now you
can see we have this resized image.
Now what we've done to this point is we've run a test event but we don't actually have a trigger.
So there's nothing that's going to cause this to happen automatically.
So the next thing to do is to actually configure the trigger so that every time we upload something
to the S3 bucket the Lambda function is automatically invoked.
So we need to head over to our command line again now and we need to run this command and this is going
to allow permission it's going to give permission to Lambda to run our function.
So it's aws Lambda add permission we provide the function name we provide the principal as S3 to Amazon
aws.com the statement I.D. is a value that you can create and then we have the action Lambda invoke
function and then we have the source ARN and in here you basically have your bucket name and then
we have source account and you need to have your account number and then we hit enter.
And so that's being created and we now need to go back to the Lambda console and we need to add our
trigger.
So we're going to add a trigger.
We're going to head down and choose S3 we are going to select our bucket and it's automatically selected
for me and we could also enter a prefix or suffix.
We're not going to now but that might help for instance if you are saving back into the same bucket
in a different file format then you could limit it to jpegs so let's click add and we now have our
trigger so let's head over to S3 and I'm going to go back into my source bucket and what I want to do
is just upload a couple of files so I'm just gonna head into a directory here where I've got a couple
of the images we were using earlier in this in this course and choose click upload and now let's head
over to our resized bucket and we refresh.
And there we go.
We've got our resized files.
So if I for instance take one of these and let's just download that file and drag it onto the screen
and you know this is one that we had earlier in the in the course and you can say it's definitely been
reduced in size now.
So that's it for this lab guys.
Let's have a look.
Back in the diagram to see what we've built so we've now built this capability where a user can upload
a j peg image to a bucket and then an event notification notifies Lambda that this has happened and
Lambda executes some code which goes and picks up that image resize it and then saves it into this bucket.
And then we've actually got some events that go to CloudWatch logs in fact let's look in CloudWatch
logs and see what's been logged.
So we've got a monitoring view logs in CloudWatch logs and then let's choose the latest which is going
to be this one here.
And so now you can see that you've got a Lambda execution and you can see all the information here and
then you'll get the successfully resized image and you can see the name of the image that's being resized
so and you'll see that happening a couple of times for each of those images that we uploaded so that
all looks great.
So we've we've built this out nicely.
And what we're going to do in the next lab put together a use case with DynamoDB.
Now if you want to get rid of your configuration you can just go to Lambda, go to functions, and for each
of the functions we didn't clean up the one for the last lab, you just go in and delete it.
Remember you're not going to be paying for this unless it's actually executing.
And the other thing you can then do is go to S3 and just delete your buckets and if you want to you
can then also go in and delete the role from IAM